---
icon: material/location-enter
tags:
  - How-To
  - CLI
  - Introduction
  - Solar Position
hide:
  - toc
---

!!! danger "Incomplete"

    Review Me

Photovoltaic power
is the electrical energy generated by a photovoltaic (PV) system
when solar irradiance strikes its surface
and is converted into electricity.
This process relies on the photovoltaic effect,
where solar cells transform sunlight into direct current (DC) electricity,
which can then be used immediately, stored,
or fed into the electrical grid.
The power output of a PV system
depends on multiple factors such as
the angle of sunlight incidence,
the efficiency of the solar panels,
environmental conditions,
and the amount of solar irradiance available.

PVGIS
estimates photovoltaic power output
for various technologies
using either broadband or _spectrally resolved irradiance data_ (the latter not implemnted!).
A crucial metric for evaluating PV system performance
is the cumulative energy produced over a given time period
-- daily, monthly, or annually --
which aggregates instantaneous power outputs over that timeframe.

PVGIS calculates power output in two key phases.
First,
it determines the sun’s position relative to the solar surface during the selected period,
focusing on the solar incidence angle,
which depends on solar altitude and azimuth angles
combined with the panel’s location, orientation, and tilt.
PVGIS follows the *North-Up = 0°* convention
for azimuth angular measurements,
an important consideration in solar positioning
and incidence angle calculations.

Second,
based on the incidence angle,
PVGIS estimates the direct, diffuse, and ground-reflected irradiance components
reaching the panel surface.
It then integrates environmental inputs like
ambient temperature and wind speed
to derive conversion efficiency coefficients
that reflect the PV panel’s ability to convert irradiance into electrical power.

The algorithm includes :

1. Defining the time period of evaluation.
2. Calculating solar altitude angles using established solar time and positioning models.
3. Calculating solar azimuth angles with precise algorithms.
4. Applying masks to identify solar positions (above horizon, low angles, nighttime).
5. Computing direct horizontal irradiance.
6. Computing diffuse and ground-reflected irradiance.
7. Summing irradiance components to find global inclined irradiance.
8. Reading ambient condition time series affecting panel performance.
9. Calculating conversion efficiency coefficients.
10. Estimating instantaneous PV power output, then integrating over time to obtain total energy produced.

This approach enables PVGIS to provide accurate,
time-resolved estimations of photovoltaic power outputs
tailored to user-defined conditions and surface orientations.

??? "Introduction in the commmand line"

    ``` bash exec="true" result="ansi" source="material-block"
    pvgis-prototype power introduction
    ```
